Global Grant Application

> For background on how community needs were identified, see the accompanying
> [Community Assessment Results](gg2688284-assessment.md).

Basic Information

**GRANT NUMBER**

GG2688284

**STATUS**

Draft

**Grant title**

Malawi WASH Project - 5 wells

**Type of Project**

**Humanitarian Project**

Address community needs and produce sustainable, measurable outcomes

**Primary Contacts**

**Name**

**Club**

**District**

6450

**Sponsor**

**Role**

Christopher Walquist

Christopher Chirwa

Downers Grove

Blantyre

Rotary Club

Rotary Club

International

Host

9210

Committee Members

**Host committee**

**Name**

**Club**

**District**

**Role**

Patricia Khomani

Blantyre

> Rotary Club \]

9210

Secondary Contact

Secondary Contact

Secondary Contact

\[

Christopher Kapenda

Doreen Chanje

Blantyre

\[ Rotary Club \]

9210

9210

Blantyre

\[ Rotary Club \]

**International committee**

\-

Page 1 of 18 -

**Name**

**Club**

**District**

**Role**

Randa Bishlawi

Downers Grove

6450

Secondary Contact International

\[

Rotary Club \]

Harry McCabe

Downers Grove

> Rotary Club \]

6450

6450

Secondary Contact International

Secondary Contact International

\[

Laura Trompeter

Downers Grove

\[ Rotary Club \]

**Do any of these committee members have potential conflicts of
interest?**

A conflict of interest occurs when someone is in a position to make or
influence a decision about a grant

or award that could benefit them, their family, their business, or an
entity in which they serve in a paid or

voluntary leadership or advisory position.

**For each Rotary member who serves on the grant committee, list all
relationships that the**

**member has with any scholarship recipients, cooperating organizations,
project vendors, or**

**other individuals or organizations that will benefit from the grant.**

Chris Walquist - My wife Grace Walquist is a global grant payment
coordinator for Rotary International. No

conflict of interest anticipated; her team lead is aware of my
involvement, and Grace will not be assigned any

responsibility for any part of this grant.

**Next, list all relationships that district officers and other members
of the sponsor clubs or**

**districts (other than the members of the grant committee) have with
any award recipients,**

**cooperating organizations, project vendors, or other individuals or
organizations that would**

**benefit from the grant.**

No such relationships are known.

Project Overview

**Tell us a little about your project. What are the main objectives of
the project, and who will**

**benefit from it?**

This project will serve five impoverished villages of the Zomba District
in rural Malawi, Africa by drilling

borehole wells and installing Afridev lever-operated deep-well hand
pumps to provide adequate access to clean

water for drinking, food preparation, handwashing, bathing, and
small-scale agriculture.

Villages In Partnership (VIP), our partner organization, has identified
five villages that face a shortfall of about

7

boreholes of Malawi\'s standard of one borehole serving 50 households:
Manduwasa (460 ppl), Makuluni (635),

Mmwala (1,405), Maulana (890), and Maliwata (1,135).

This project will benefit about 1,000-1,250 people across the five new
boreholes.

VIP is a 501(c)3 and a Malawi recognised NGO. The Downers Grove and
Blantyre Rotary clubs have worked

together in the past with VIP to complete a previous global
well-drilling grant, GG2122731.

Primary objectives:

1

. Reduce waterborne disease rates by at least 50% in target communities
within the first year.

\-

Page 2 of 18 -

2

3

4

. Decrease water-fetching time by 70%.

. Support small-scale agriculture and livelihoods through reliable water
access.

. Establish community-led systems for long-term operation and
maintenance.

The project will assure sustainability of these improvements by:

> Providing training to villagers in maintenance and repair of borehole
> wells, and knowledge of access to area

\-

mechanics;

\-

\-

Setting a water user's fee to support maintenance and repair of
boreholes;

Establishing village water committees to collect water fees and oversee
maintenance and repair of boreholes.

In terms of economic and social justice impact, a nearby well can
transform the social structure of a community

for the better, especially for women and girls. Girls no longer have to
spend large portions of their day fetching

water and can go to school, thereby increasing their capabilities. Women
similarly can spend freed-up time

engaging in economic opportunities more suited to their capabilities and
goals.

Water fees are collected monthly by Water Point Committees. Funds are
held briefly by the treasurer and used

promptly to buy maintenance materials, with committees encouraged to
make advance purchases rather than

hold cash long-term.

Area Mechanics are contracted by Water Point Committees via annual
service agreements. The annual fee

ensures regular servicing of boreholes every three months throughout the
year, and the same fees provide for

major maintenance works of the boreholes.

The hydrogeological survey is included as part of the process and cost
of the drilling. The drillers will be doing

the due diligence, as they are \"on the hook\" if they do not find
water.

Areas of Focus

**Which area of focus will this project support?**

Water, sanitation, and hygiene

Measuring Success

Water, sanitation, and hygiene

**Which goals of this area of focus will your project support?**

Facilitating universal and equitable access to safe and affordable
drinking water; Improving community hygiene

knowledge, behaviors, and practices that help prevent the spread of
disease; Strengthening the capacity of

governments, institutions, and communities to develop, finance, manage,
and maintain sustainable water and

sanitation services;

**How will you measure your project\'s impact? Find tips and information
on how to measure**

**results in**
[[the]{.underline}](https://my.rotary.org/en/document/global-grant-monitoring-and-evaluation-plan-supplement)
[[Global]{.underline}](https://my.rotary.org/en/document/global-grant-monitoring-and-evaluation-plan-supplement)
[[Grant]{.underline}](https://my.rotary.org/en/document/global-grant-monitoring-and-evaluation-plan-supplement)
[[Monitoring]{.underline}](https://my.rotary.org/en/document/global-grant-monitoring-and-evaluation-plan-supplement)
[[and]{.underline}](https://my.rotary.org/en/document/global-grant-monitoring-and-evaluation-plan-supplement)
[[Evaluation]{.underline}](https://my.rotary.org/en/document/global-grant-monitoring-and-evaluation-plan-supplement)
[[Plan]{.underline}](https://my.rotary.org/en/document/global-grant-monitoring-and-evaluation-plan-supplement)
[[Supplement.]{.underline}](https://my.rotary.org/en/document/global-grant-monitoring-and-evaluation-plan-supplement)
**You need to include at**

**least one standardized measure from the drop-down menu as part of your
application.**

\-

Page 3 of 18 -

**Measure**

**Collection Method**

**Frequency**

**Beneficiaries**

Number of people with access to improved

sources of drinking water

Surveys/questionnair

es

Every six

months

1000-2499

Number of individuals trained

Grant records and

reports

Every six

months

20-49

waterborne disease rate

water-fetching time

Public records

Every year

Every year

1000-2499

1000-2499

Surveys/questionnair

es

**Do you know who will collect information for monitoring and
evaluation?**

Yes

**Name of Individual or Organization**

VIP and Blantyre Rotary Club

**Briefly explain why this person or organization is qualified for this
task.**

RC Blantyre has participated in humanitarian projects and is experienced
with monitoring and measuring results

within the TRF Global Grant framework.

RC Blantyre will partner with Villages in Partnership (VIP), an NGO with
17+ years of experience in providing

WASH improvements to the rural villages of the Zomba District of Malawi,
Africa, to jointly plan, implement,

monitor, and evaluate this project.

Location and Dates

Humanitarian Project

**Where will your project take place?**

**City or town**

**Province or state**

Multiple villages (5) - See community assessment

Zomba

**Country**

Malawi

**When will your project take place?**

2

026-04-30 to 2028-04-30

Participants

Cooperating Organizations (Optional)

\-

Page 4 of 18 -

**Name**

**Website**

**Location**

Villages in Partnership

https://villagesinpartnership.org/

PO Box 52 Allentown United States

**Supporting Documents**

2

026-01-28-gg2688284-mou-draftpk.pdf

**Do any committee members have a potential conflict of interest related
to a cooperating**

**organization?**

No

**Why did you choose to partner with this organization and what will its
role be?**

The Rotary clubs of Downers Grove and Blantyre have successfully
partnered with VIP to drill 5 borehole wells,

and the Downers Grove club has since supported four additional wells
through VIP.

Villages in Partnership is a 501(c)(3) Charitable Organization and a
Malawi recognised NGO, who has been

working to improve the quality of life of the people in the rural areas
of the Sakata region in the Zomba District

of Malawi since 2008. One of their main areas of focus is providing
clean water in remote areas that do not have

access to fresh water. Their organization currently has a well-managed
staff of 21 in the district. They have

worked with many villages to drill or refurbish boreholes that are then
maintained by the villagers. Their process

starts with determining what the village chiefs and leaders need and
continues with building trust. Water is the

nearly always the number one priority for villages when VIP first
approaches a village to explore partnership.

VIP has formed strong and effective partnerships with local and national
government, and local and

international community organizations and businesses. They will leverage
these partnerships to do the work

outlined in this grant.

VIP has proven their capability to complete sustainable WASH projects in
a TRF Global Grant framework, and

we look forward to continuing to work with them in this Rotary
Foundation Global Grant.

Partners (Optional)

**List any other partners that will participate in this project.**

No other partners.

Rotarian Participants

**Describe the roles and responsibilities that the host and
international sponsors will have in**

**this project. Please be specific. Which sponsor will receive and
manage the grant funds?**

> Host (Blantyre club):

\-

\-

\-

\-

\-

Conduct monitoring and evaluation activities.

Prepare progress and status reports.

Review invoices and receipts as needed for work done by VIP.

Monitor and evaluate progress.

Submit required progress reports to the Foundation until project
completion.

VIP (Org 1 on the MOU):

\-

\-

Identify the villages to receive the wells.

Conduct Community Assessment for each village to receive a well.

\-

Page 5 of 18 -

\-

\-

\-

Conduct hydrological survey for each village to receive wells.

Gather photo and/or video of each village's well-drilling, and share
with partners.

Conduct all activities necessary to complete the wells, such as hiring
contractors for hydrological survey and

drilling, overseeing the work, securing permits, certifying the finished
well.

\-

\-

\-

\-

\-

Deliver timely invoices and receipts for all activities covered by the
Grant.

See to delivery of training in well maintenance.

See to delivery of education in sanitation/hygiene to beneficiaries of
the wells.

Organize and implement infrastructure to support well, such as water fee
administration.

Draft report for submission to host sponsor.

Int\'l Sponsor (Downers Grove club):

\-

\-

\-

\-

\-

Lead project planning team.

Manage the Grant funds.

Review invoices and distribute approved payments.

Lead project planning team and apply for Foundation Global Grant.

Shepherd the Global Grant Application through approval, and manage its
status to

completion.

\-

\-

\-

\-

\-

\-

\-

Keep VIP, both Rotary Clubs, and donors up to date on grant application
process.

Manage and account for the Grant funds.

Review invoices and receipts as needed for work done by VIP.

Pay approved invoices and reimburse approved receipts.

Coordinate fundraising and secure pledges.

File Annual Reports.

Remit the project closure report.

**Describe how the partnership between the host and international
sponsors was formed. What**

**agreement have the sponsors made toward ensuring that the project will
be implemented**

**successfully? How will they manage any challenges that arise
throughout the project?**

> Downers Grove and Blantyre have worked together successfully to
> complete a similar global grant,
>
> GG2122731. Downers Grove will host regular videoconferences with
> Blantyre and VIP representatives to
>
> project-manage the grant and address whatever challenges arise.

Budget

**What local currency are you using in your project\'s budget?**

The currency you select should be what you use for a majority of the
project\'s expenses.

**Local Currency**

**U.S. dollar (USD) exchange rate**

**Currency Set On**

USD

1

21/11/2025

**What is the budget for this grant?**

List each item in your project\'s budget. Remember that the project\'s
total budget must equal its total funding,

which will be calculated in step 9. Project budgets, including the World
Fund match, must be at least 30,000

USD.

\-

Page 6 of 18 -

**\#**

**Category**

**Description**

start up

**Supplier**

various

**Cost in**

> **USD**

**Cost in**

> **USD**

1

Project

1944.44

1944

management

2

3

Operations

Personnel

construction

contractor

36944.44

> 3611.11

36944

> 3611

train Water Point

committees

VIP/local

trainer

4

Training

handover

VIP/Blantyre

RC

1666.67

1667

5

6

7

8

9

Operations

Operations

Operations

Operations

post-implementation

administration (10%)

closing

VIP

> 1000

4516.67

> 0

1000

4517

> 0

VIP

VIP/Blantyre

various

TRF

contingency fund

support fee expenses

1000

> 500

1000

> 500

Project

management

Total budget:

51183

51183

Funding

**Tell us about the funding you\'ve secured for your project. We\'ll use
the information you enter**

**here to calculate your maximum possible funding match from the World
Fund.**

**\#**

**Source**

**Details**

**Amount**

> **(USD)**

**Support\***

**Total**

1

Cash

from

Club

Downers Grove

19,007.00

11,000.00

950.35

19,95

> 7.35

\[

Rotary Club \]

2

3

District

Designa

ted

Fund

(DDF)

6450

0.00

11,00

> 0.00

Cash

Aiken

5,000.00

250.00

5,250

\-

Page 7 of 18 -

from

Club

.00

\[

Rotary Club \]

4

5

6

Cash

from

Club

Blantyre

> Rotary Club \]

1,000.00

1,500.00

> 100.00

50.00

75.00

> 5.00

1,050

> .00

\[

Cash

from

Club

Cape Charles

\[ Rotary Club \]

1,575

> .00

Non-

Rotaria

n

Individual donors

105.00

contrib

utions

with

NO

match

from

TRF

7

8

Cash

from

Club

Oak Park-River Forest

1,000.00

2,500.00

50.00

1,050

> .00

\[

Rotary Club \]

Non-

Rotaria

n

anon private foundation - 1x1 match

125.00

2,625

> .00

contrib

utions

with

NO

match

from

TRF

9

Cash

from

Club

Naperville

\[ Rotary Club \]

776.00

38.80

814.80

\*

Whenever cash is contributed to the Foundation to help fund a global
grant project, an additional 5 percent

is applied to help cover the cost of processing these funds. Clubs and
districts can receive Paul Harris Fellow

recognition points for the additional expense.

**How much World Fund money would you like to use on this project?**

You may request up to 8,800.00 USD from the World Fund.

8800

Funding Summary

> **DDF contributions:**

**Cash contributions:**

11,000.00

28,283.00

\-

Page 8 of 18 -

**Financing subtotal (matched contributions + World Fund):**

> **Non-Rotarian contributions with NO match from TRF:**

48,083.00

> 2,600.00

**Total funding:**

> **Total budget:**

50,683.00

51,183.00

Sustainability

Humanitarian Projects

**Project planning**

**Describe the community needs that your project will address.**

Need for safe clean water

Need for women and girls to free up water-fetching time for more
productive pursuits like education and

economic opportunities

Need for Initial Community Education materials

Need for monitoring and supervisory skills

**How did your project team identify these needs?**

The Blantyre Rotary Club and the Villages in Partnership staff conducted
thorough community assessments

to identify and prioritize villagers' needs and assets.

During the needs assessments, Community members explained the problems
and identified the potential

solutions.

Assessments started with small group interviews with the village
leaders, continued with surveys, larger

community meetings, and mapping exercises. Assets such as existing
boreholes, other clean water sources,

fortified and expanded latrines, and dish racks were identified.

**How were members of the benefiting community involved in finding
solutions?**

> Community members embrace this project as their own because they have
> identified and prioritized the needs
>
> with the help of the Blantyre Rotarians and VIP staff.

During the Needs Assessment and the Community Mobilization Meetings, the
Leaders and Chiefs learned

that the villages will own the equipment after the project is completed.
They will understand that being

involved early in the project will yield better long term results.

**How were community members involved in planning the project?**

> In addition to participating in the needs assessment, Villagers
> contribute to the project as they are able. This
>
> includes providing land for borehole wells, sand for concrete for
> construction, labor to assist with
>
> construction.

**Project implementation**

**Summarize each step of your project's implementation.**

Do not include sensitive personal data, such as government ID numbers,
religion, race, health information, etc. If you

include personal data, you are responsible for informing those whose
personal data is included that you are providing it

to Rotary and that it will be processed in accordance with Rotary's
[[Privacy]{.underline}](https://my.rotary.org/en/privacy-policy)
[[Policy]{.underline}](https://my.rotary.org/en/privacy-policy).

\-

Page 9 of 18 -

**\#**

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

**Activity**

**Duration**

1/2 month

1/2 month

1 month

1 month

1/2 month

1 month

1 month

1 month

2 yr

Needs assessment, hydro & pre-drilling survey, permits

community mobilization, identification of contractor

Drill boreholes, civil works

install Afridev pumps, water quality testing

Train village Water Committees on mgt and maintenance of Water Points

Official launch and handover

supportive supervision/monitoring of Water Point committees

post drilling survey (impact assessment), management of Water Points

On site inspection by Rotarians from Blantyre and/or Downers Grove clubs

Remit all required Rotary Foundation reports

Final report from NGO

1

1

0

2 yr

1

\--

**Will you work in coordination with any related initiatives in the
community?**

Yes

**Briefly describe the other initiatives and how they relate to this
project.**

Malawi Ministry of Water. Training, testing for water quality, and
resource for standardised data to determine

baseline data points for monitoring some aspects of the project.

On a trial basis, VIP will be installing fences around some or all of
these boreholes, but that cost will not be

covered by this grant.

**Please describe the training, community outreach, or educational
programs this project will**

**include.**

VIP and the Ministry of Water (water department) will conduct training
to community members, community

mechanics and borehole committees on general sanitation issues including
care and maintenance of the

facilities through this project.

Leaders select community members to be trained in techniques to repair
of wells and other equipment.

Working in partnership with Villages in Partnership and the Blantyre
Rotary Club, the Malawian

government's Ministry of Water will be very active in the training.
Their qualified trainers will lead Advanced

Training for the mechanics.

The mechanics are trained persons identified from the communities and
have passed through level 1 of

Community Based Management (CBM) training. Historically projects have
identified a few village members

and take them through level 2 CBM training to allow them develop more
skills in borehole maintenance and

repair. These area mechanics receive further training for 5 days at
Naming'azi Training Farm. The training

will be organized in collaboration with Zomba Water Department as a main
water implementing partner.

There is a Ministry office located in the Zomba District that is
available for training, community mobilization

meetings, and M & E education.

\-

Page 10 of 18 -

VIP provides education for the village members on the need for clean
water, maintenance of wells, WASH

improvements, and data collection techniques.

Education of community members in the importance of using clean water
for drinking, cooking, and washing

cooking and serving ware. There's increased education on the need for
hand-washing with soap in preventing

the spread of COVID-19 and proper hygiene to help lower exposure to
other diseases.

**How were these needs identified?**

VIP and the Rotary Club of Blantyre have technical expertise in water
and sanitation, and provided further

guidance on the training gaps that would need to be filled.

VIP has vast knowledge in bringing clean water to villages through new
boreholes. 146 wells have been drilled

or refurbished in rural villages during the past 12 years. It is a
standard procedure that when a new borehole is

drilled, a committee has to be selected and trained.

**What incentives (for example, monetary compensation, awards,
certification, or publicity), will**

**you use, if any, to encourage community members to participate in the
project?**

> Area mechanics will receive certificates from their initial training,
> but still will receive additional refresher
>
> training and certification to improve their skills and knowledge in
> dealing with communities.

T-shirts are part of incentives to motivate the community structure, to
implement and monitor the designed

activities. This also would help to increase message and project
visibility, and identification of project front

line volunteers.

As mentioned, during the Community Mobilization Meetings, leaders learn
that the villages will own the

equipment after the project is completed. They don't need any funds to
buy additional boreholes as long as

they are maintained properly.

Community members will not be given any monetary incentives or
compensation. Through the Needs

Assessment exercise, the community will embrace this project as their
own, because they understand that it is

for their benefit. Local leaders (chiefs), will work with VIP to
encourage the community members to

participate in the project.

**List any community members or community groups that will oversee the
continuation of the**

**project after grant-funded activities conclude.**

Village Water Point committees are established to oversee all
operations. This includes the mechanics\'

ongoing training, providing security of wells and pumps, and collecting
monthly user fees.

The village water point committee and community policing groups, working
with local chiefs, will look into the

issues of equipment security that the Government, through the Ministry
of Home Affairs & Internal Security,

require to maintain the peace and reduce civil and criminal acts in the
communities.

Budget

**Will you purchase budget items from local vendors?**

Yes

**Explain the process you used to select vendors.**

An impartial bidding process to select local contractors for this
project helps keep costs down and improves

local support from the beginning. Villages will purchase from local
vendors tools and materials that cannot be

provided by villagers.

\-

Page 11 of 18 -

**Did you use competitive bidding to select vendors?**

Yes

**Please provide an operations and maintenance plan for the equipment or
materials you**

**anticipate purchasing for this project. This plan should include who
will operate and maintain**

**the equipment and how they will be trained.**

1

. The project shall provide a 'starter-pack' comprising basic spares to
be used for maintenance of the

boreholes.

2

3

4

. Village mechanics shall be trained in borehole repair and maintenance.

. Trainings sessions and orientation meeting sessions are conducted as
needed.

. The Water Councils and these trained mechanics are responsible for the
operational stability to continue an

interrupted supply of fresh water.

5

6

. Borehole sites require training sessions and user orientaion meetings.

. Subsequent repairs shall be paid through user fees.

**Describe how community members will maintain the equipment after
grant-funded activities**

**conclude. Will replacement parts be available?**

After every bore is drilled, VIP will provide a starter pack tool kit to
each and every Water Committee for use

in their village boreholes.

Each Water Council is trusted to collect monthly water use fees as
described earlier in this application. The

committees uses these funds purchase replacement parts. Borehole
committees use locally owned shops in the

communities to purchase such needed spare parts, which is the current
practice VIP has used successfully in

other villages.

The boreholes will be handed over to the communities by the project
stakeholders and partners at an

organized meeting right in the communities. It is done openly to hold
the committee members accountable for

ongoing operation of the equipment for the long term.

It is anticipated that the grant will not be closed until two years has
elapsed since the installation is complete.

This will allow sufficient time to evaluate the project's sustainability
and make adjustments as necessary.

**If the grant will be used to purchase any equipment, will the
equipment be culturally**

**appropriate and conform to the community\'s technology standards?**

Yes

**Please explain.**

1

. Boreholes, using a hand-pump are very common in Malawi, and within
this specific area, so community

members would already have familiarity with them.

2

. The technology capacity of the Rotary Foundation conforms to the needs
of the villagers, VIP and The

Blantyre Rotary club. It will be utilised by both organizations and
communities to efficiently communicate and

develop the required M&E, financial, and annual reports.

**After the project is completed, who will own the items purchased by
grant funds? No items**

**may be owned by a Rotary district, club, or member.**

The community shall own all the items. The facilities shall be handed
over to the community at a public

ceremony.

Funding

**Does your project involve microcredit activities?**

\-

Page 12 of 18 -

**Have you found a local funding source to sustain project outcomes for
the long term?**

Yes

**Please describe this funding source.**

Water fee revenues will be an ongoing local funding source.

**Will any part of the project generate income for ongoing project
funding? If yes, please**

**explain.**

The heart of long-term management lies with the Water Point committee
that each community has formed,

which administer a modest fee-collection system, where households
contribute small amounts to a

maintenance fund. This fund covers routine repairs, spare parts for the
Afridev pumps, and the services of

trained Area Mechanics when more serious work is needed. The committees
are trained during the project to

handle these funds transparently, ensuring the boreholes remain
self-sufficient without relying on external

donations.

These committees hold regular meetings to monitor borehole
functionality, track water usage, and watch for

early signs of health improvements, such as fewer cases of water-borne
diseases.

Supporting Documents

2

026-02-17-Signed-MoU-By-Water-Department_Rotary-Int-GG2688284.pdf

GG2688284_Rotary_Global_Grant\_-\_Community_Assessment_Results.pdf

Authorizations

Authorizations & Legal Agreements

**Legal agreement**

Global Grant Agreement - to be authorized by the primary contacts and
club presidents (or DRFC chairs if

district-sponsored)

This Global Grant Agreement (Agreement) is entered into by The Rotary
Foundation of Rotary

International (TRF) and the grant sponsors (Sponsors). In consideration
of receiving this Rotary Foundation

Global Grant (Grant) from TRF, the Sponsors agree that:

1

2

. All information contained in this application is, to the best of our
knowledge, true and accurate.

. We have read the Terms and Conditions for Rotary Foundation Global
Grants (Terms and Conditions)

and will adhere to all policies therein.

3

. The Sponsors shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless Rotary
International (RI) and TRF, including

their respective directors, trustees, officers, committee members,
employees, agents, associate foundations

and representatives (collectively Rotary), from and against all claims,
including but not limited to claims of

subrogation, demands, actions, damages, losses, costs, liabilities,
expenses (including reasonable attorney's

fees and other legal expenses), awards, judgments, and fines asserted
against or recovered from Rotary arising

out of any act, conduct, omission, negligence, misconduct, or unlawful
act (or act contrary to any applicable

governmental order or regulation) resulting directly or indirectly from
a Sponsor's and/or participant's

involvement in grant-funded activities, including all travel related to
the grant.

4

. The failure of the parties to comply with the terms of this Agreement
due to an act of God, strike,

government regulation, war, fire, riot, civil unrest, hurricane,
earthquake, or other natural disasters, acts of

public enemies, curtailment of transportation facilities, political
upheavals, civil disorders, outbreak of

\-

Page 13 of 18 -

infectious disease or illness, acts of terrorism, or any similar cause
beyond the control of the parties shall not

be deemed a breach of this Agreement. In such an event, the Agreement
shall be deemed terminated and the

Sponsors shall refund to TRF all unexpended global grant funds within 30
days of termination.

5

. TRF's entire responsibility is expressly limited to payment of the
total financing amount. TRF does not

assume any further responsibility in connection with this grant.

6

. TRF reserves the right to cancel the grant and/or this Agreement
without notice upon the failure of either

or both of the Sponsors to abide by the terms set forth in this
Agreement and the Terms and Conditions.

Upon cancellation, TRF shall be entitled to a refund from the Sponsors
of any global grant funds, including

any interest earned, that have not been expended.

7

. The laws of the State of Illinois, USA, without reference to its
conflicts of laws principles, shall govern all

matters arising out of or relating to this Agreement, including, without
limitation, its interpretation,

construction, performance, and enforcement.

8

. Any legal action brought by either party against the other party
arising out of or relating to this Agreement

must be brought in either, the Circuit Court of Cook County, State of
Illinois, USA or the Federal District

Court for the Northern District of Illinois, USA. Each party consents to
the exclusive jurisdiction of these

courts, and their respective appellate courts for the purpose of such
actions. Nothing herein prohibits a party

that obtains a judgment in either of the designated courts from
enforcing the judgment in any other court.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, TRF may also bring legal action against
Sponsors and/or individuals traveling

on grant funds in any court with jurisdiction over them.

9

. This Agreement binds and benefits the parties and their respective
administrators, legal representatives,

and permitted successors and assigns.

1

0\. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be illegal,
invalid or unenforceable, the remaining

provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.

1

1\. Sponsors may not assign any of their rights under this Agreement
except with the prior written consent of

TRF. Sponsors may not delegate any performance under this Agreement
without the prior written consent of

TRF. Any purported assignment of a Sponsor's rights or delegation of
performance without TRF's prior

written consent is void.

1

2\. TRF may assign some or all of its rights under this Agreement to an
associate foundation of TRF. TRF

may delegate any performance under this Agreement to an associate
foundation. Any other purported

assignment of TRF's rights or delegation of performance without the
Sponsors' prior written consent is void.

1

3\. Sponsors will comply with all economic and trade sanctions,
including those implemented by the Office of

Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the United States Department of
Treasury, and will ensure that they do

not support or promote violence, terrorist activity or related training,
or money laundering.

1

4\. This Agreement constitutes the final agreement between the parties.
No amendment or waiver of any

provision of this Agreement shall be effective unless it is in the form
of a writing signed by the parties.

1

5\. Rotary may use information contained in this application and
subsequent reports for promotional

purposes, such as in Rotary magazine, in Rotary Leader, on rotary.org
and on social media. For any and all

photographs submitted with any application or follow-up report, the
Sponsor hereby grants to Rotary an

unlimited, perpetual, worldwide right and license to use, modify, adapt,
publish, and distribute the

photograph(s) in any media now known or hereafter devised, including but
not limited to, in Rotary

publications, advertisements, and Websites and on social media channels.
The Sponsor represents and

warrants that (a) each adult appearing in the photograph(s) has given
her/his/their unrestricted written

consent to the Sponsor to photograph them and to use and license their
likeness, including licensing the

photograph(s) to third parties, (b) the parent or guardian of each child
under age 18 or each person who lacks

legal capacity appearing in the photograph(s) has given unrestricted
written consent to the Sponsor to

photograph the child or individual and to use and license their
likenesses, including licensing the

photograph(s) to third parties, and (c) it is the copyright owner of the
photograph(s) or that the copyright

\-

Page 14 of 18 -

owner of the photograph(s) has given the Sponsor the right to license or
sublicense the photograph(s) to

Rotary.

1

6\. Privacy is important to Rotary and any personal data that the
Sponsor shares with Rotary will only be used

for official Rotary business. The Sponsor should minimize the personal
data of Grant beneficiaries that it

shares with TRF to only personal data that TRF specifically requests.
Personal data that is shared with TRF

will be used to enable the Sponsor's participation in this Grant
process, to facilitate the Sponsor's Grant

experience and for reporting purposes. Personal data provided to TRF may
be transferred to Rotary service

providers (for example, affiliated entities) to assist Rotary in
planning Grant-related activities. By applying for

a grant, the Sponsor may receive information about the Grant and
supplementary services via email. For

further information about how Rotary uses personal data, please contact
[[privacy@rotary.org]{.underline}](mailto:rotarysupportcenter@rotary.org).
Personal data

provided to TRF or collected on this form is subject to
[[Rotary's]{.underline}](https://my.rotary.org/en/privacy-policy)
[[Privacy]{.underline}](https://my.rotary.org/en/privacy-policy)
[[Policy]{.underline}](https://my.rotary.org/en/privacy-policy).

1

7\. The Sponsors agree to share information on best practices when
asked, and TRF may provide their

contact information to other Rotary members who may wish advice on
implementing similar activities.

1

8\. The Sponsors will ensure that all individuals traveling on grant
funds have been informed of the travel

policies stated in the Terms and Conditions and have been made aware
that they are responsible for obtaining

travel insurance.

1

9\. To the best of our knowledge and belief, all relationships between
grant committee members, district

officers, and other members of the sponsor clubs or districts and any
scholarship recipients, cooperating

organizations, project vendors, or other individuals or organizations
that will benefit from the grant have been

disclosed in this application. Except as disclosed here, neither we nor
any person with whom we have or had a

personal or business relationship will benefit or intends to benefit
from Rotary Foundation grant funds or

have any interest that may represent a potential conflicting interest. A
conflict of interest occurs when

someone is in a position to make or influence a decision about a grant
or scholarship that could benefit them,

their family, their business, or an entity in which they serve in a paid
or voluntary leadership or advisory

position.

**Primary contact authorizations**

Global Grant Agreement - to be authorized by the primary contacts and
club presidents (or DRFC chairs if

district-sponsored)

This Global Grant Agreement (Agreement) is entered into by The Rotary
Foundation of Rotary

International (TRF) and the grant sponsors (Sponsors). In consideration
of receiving this Rotary Foundation

Global Grant (Grant) from TRF, the Sponsors agree that:

1

2

. All information contained in this application is, to the best of our
knowledge, true and accurate.

. We have read the Terms and Conditions for Rotary Foundation Global
Grants (Terms and Conditions)

and will adhere to all policies therein.

3

. The Sponsors shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless Rotary
International (RI) and TRF, including

their respective directors, trustees, officers, committee members,
employees, agents, associate foundations

and representatives (collectively Rotary), from and against all claims,
including but not limited to claims of

subrogation, demands, actions, damages, losses, costs, liabilities,
expenses (including reasonable attorney's

fees and other legal expenses), awards, judgments, and fines asserted
against or recovered from Rotary arising

out of any act, conduct, omission, negligence, misconduct, or unlawful
act (or act contrary to any applicable

governmental order or regulation) resulting directly or indirectly from
a Sponsor's and/or participant's

involvement in grant-funded activities, including all travel related to
the grant.

4

. The failure of the parties to comply with the terms of this Agreement
due to an act of God, strike,

government regulation, war, fire, riot, civil unrest, hurricane,
earthquake, or other natural disasters, acts of

public enemies, curtailment of transportation facilities, political
upheavals, civil disorders, outbreak of

infectious disease or illness, acts of terrorism, or any similar cause
beyond the control of the parties shall not

\-

Page 15 of 18 -

be deemed a breach of this Agreement. In such an event, the Agreement
shall be deemed terminated and the

Sponsors shall refund to TRF all unexpended global grant funds within 30
days of termination.

5

. TRF's entire responsibility is expressly limited to payment of the
total financing amount. TRF does not

assume any further responsibility in connection with this grant.

6

. TRF reserves the right to cancel the grant and/or this Agreement
without notice upon the failure of either

or both of the Sponsors to abide by the terms set forth in this
Agreement and the Terms and Conditions.

Upon cancellation, TRF shall be entitled to a refund from the Sponsors
of any global grant funds, including

any interest earned, that have not been expended.

7

. The laws of the State of Illinois, USA, without reference to its
conflicts of laws principles, shall govern all

matters arising out of or relating to this Agreement, including, without
limitation, its interpretation,

construction, performance, and enforcement.

8

. Any legal action brought by either party against the other party
arising out of or relating to this Agreement

must be brought in either, the Circuit Court of Cook County, State of
Illinois, USA or the Federal District

Court for the Northern District of Illinois, USA. Each party consents to
the exclusive jurisdiction of these

courts, and their respective appellate courts for the purpose of such
actions. Nothing herein prohibits a party

that obtains a judgment in either of the designated courts from
enforcing the judgment in any other court.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, TRF may also bring legal action against
Sponsors and/or individuals traveling

on grant funds in any court with jurisdiction over them.

9

. This Agreement binds and benefits the parties and their respective
administrators, legal representatives,

and permitted successors and assigns.

1

0\. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be illegal,
invalid or unenforceable, the remaining

provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.

1

1\. Sponsors may not assign any of their rights under this Agreement
except with the prior written consent of

TRF. Sponsors may not delegate any performance under this Agreement
without the prior written consent of

TRF. Any purported assignment of a Sponsor's rights or delegation of
performance without TRF's prior

written consent is void.

1

2\. TRF may assign some or all of its rights under this Agreement to an
associate foundation of TRF. TRF

may delegate any performance under this Agreement to an associate
foundation. Any other purported

assignment of TRF's rights or delegation of performance without the
Sponsors' prior written consent is void.

1

3\. Sponsors will comply with all economic and trade sanctions,
including those implemented by the Office of

Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the United States Department of
Treasury, and will ensure that they do

not support or promote violence, terrorist activity or related training,
or money laundering.

1

4\. This Agreement constitutes the final agreement between the parties.
No amendment or waiver of any

provision of this Agreement shall be effective unless it is in the form
of a writing signed by the parties.

1

5\. Rotary may use information contained in this application and
subsequent reports for promotional

purposes, such as in Rotary magazine, in Rotary Leader, on rotary.org
and on social media. For any and all

photographs submitted with any application or follow-up report, the
Sponsor hereby grants to Rotary an

unlimited, perpetual, worldwide right and license to use, modify, adapt,
publish, and distribute the

photograph(s) in any media now known or hereafter devised, including but
not limited to, in Rotary

publications, advertisements, and Websites and on social media channels.
The Sponsor represents and

warrants that (a) each adult appearing in the photograph(s) has given
her/his/their unrestricted written

consent to the Sponsor to photograph them and to use and license their
likeness, including licensing the

photograph(s) to third parties, (b) the parent or guardian of each child
under age 18 or each person who lacks

legal capacity appearing in the photograph(s) has given unrestricted
written consent to the Sponsor to

photograph the child or individual and to use and license their
likenesses, including licensing the

photograph(s) to third parties, and (c) it is the copyright owner of the
photograph(s) or that the copyright

owner of the photograph(s) has given the Sponsor the right to license or
sublicense the photograph(s) to

\-

Page 16 of 18 -

Rotary.

> 6\. Privacy is important to Rotary and any personal data that the
> Sponsor shares with Rotary will only be used

1

for official Rotary business. The Sponsor should minimize the personal
data of Grant beneficiaries that it

shares with TRF to only personal data that TRF specifically requests.
Personal data that is shared with TRF

will be used to enable the Sponsor's participation in this Grant
process, to facilitate the Sponsor's Grant

experience and for reporting purposes. Personal data provided to TRF may
be transferred to Rotary service

providers (for example, affiliated entities) to assist Rotary in
planning Grant-related activities. By applying for

a grant, the Sponsor may receive information about the Grant and
supplementary services via email. For

further information about how Rotary uses personal data, please contact
[[privacy@rotary.org]{.underline}](mailto:rotarysupportcenter@rotary.org).
Personal data

provided to TRF or collected on this form is subject to
[[Rotary's]{.underline}](https://my.rotary.org/en/privacy-policy)
[[Privacy]{.underline}](https://my.rotary.org/en/privacy-policy)
[[Policy]{.underline}](https://my.rotary.org/en/privacy-policy).

1

7\. The Sponsors agree to share information on best practices when
asked, and TRF may provide their

contact information to other Rotary members who may wish advice on
implementing similar activities.

1

8\. The Sponsors will ensure that all individuals traveling on grant
funds have been informed of the travel

policies stated in the Terms and Conditions and have been made aware
that they are responsible for obtaining

travel insurance.

1

9\. To the best of our knowledge and belief, all relationships between
grant committee members, district

officers, and other members of the sponsor clubs or districts and any
scholarship recipients, cooperating

organizations, project vendors, or other individuals or organizations
that will benefit from the grant have been

disclosed in this application. Except as disclosed here, neither we nor
any person with whom we have or had a

personal or business relationship will benefit or intends to benefit
from Rotary Foundation grant funds or

have any interest that may represent a potential conflicting interest. A
conflict of interest occurs when

someone is in a position to make or influence a decision about a grant
or scholarship that could benefit them,

their family, their business, or an entity in which they serve in a paid
or voluntary leadership or advisory

position.

**District Rotary Foundation chair authorization**

I hereby certify that this global grant application is complete, meets
all Foundation guidelines, is eligible for

funding, and that the sponsoring club and/or district is qualified.

All Authorizations & Legal Agreements Summary

**Primary contact authorizations**

**Name**

**Club**

**District**

**Status**

Christopher

Walquist

Downers Grove

6450

\[

Rotary Club \]

Christopher Chirwa

Blantyre

\[ Rotary Club \]

9210

**District Rotary Foundation chair authorization**

\-

Page 17 of 18 -

**Name**

**Club**

**District**

**Status**

Richard Tatara

Naperville

6450

\[

Rotary Club \]

Joshua Chimhanda

Msasa

\[ Rotary Club \]

9210

**DDF authorization**

> **Name**

**Club**

**District**

**Status**

Richard Tatara

Naperville

6450

\[

Rotary Club \]

Bonnie Sanchez-

Carlson

Chicago-Near

South

6450

\[

Rotary Club \]

**Legal agreement**

> **Name**

**Club**

**District**

**Status**

Patricia Khomani

Blantyre

9210

\[

Rotary Club \]

Cathy Mead

Downers Grove

\[ Rotary Club \]

6450

\-

Page 18 of 18 -
